# Contributor Guidelines & Documentation

## General Rules

- Create issue for reporting a bug or suggestion for new/or an existing feature.
- Create pull request to contribute features or enhancements to the project.
    - Pull request must be reviewed and approved first before being committed into the `master` branch.
- Pull request and issue must be written in English to ensure clear understanding and communication for all contributors.
- Pull request should be dedicated to a single topic, addressing one specific topic such as a feature, code refactoring, or bug fix, with separate requests for each distinct category.

## Labeling

- Label `major`, `minor`, and `patch` accordingly to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/), with few additional rules:
    - Any breaking/backward incompatible changes or removal of features must be labeled `major`.

    - New features that are backward compatible must be labeled `minor`.
        - Except for new TypeScript type definitions or JSDoc comments, that do not change how the runtime implementation work, must be labeled `patch`. 

    - Bug fixes or code refactors that are backward compatible must be labeled `patch`.
        - Enhancements or bugfixes toward CI or build tools must be labeled `patch`.

- Label `feature`, `docs`, `ci`, `refactor`, and `bugfix` are only used for Pull Requests, while `feature-request` and `bug` are only used for Issues.
    - Please label them accordingly. For example: pull request featuring `feat` commit, add the `feature` label.
    - Do not label them with each other. Each pull request or issue must only have one of these labels.

- Labeling process are mostly automated by the bot, but please re-check them to ensure the labels are correct.

## Branch

- `master` - the main branch for the repository.
- `package` - contains the lastest commits from `master` and build files.
    - Auto-generated. Do not make commit or change into this branch.
- `dist` - contains the latest release `dist` files on the top level.
    - Auto-generated. Do not make commit or change into this branch.

## Commit Message Convention

We strictly follow [Conventional Commits Specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) for our commit message format.

We also recommend [Angular's Commit Message Format](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-format) and other conventions in some area.

## Release

- In order to make release, select the current draft release document generated by release-drafter, and edit the document if needed.
    - **Please wait for the "Release Drafter" action to complete.** You can check this by seeing if there is green checkmark in the latest commit of `master`. If there is not, please wait until the green checkmark appeared. Failure to do this will result in a commit tag to an outdated `package` branch.

- Always select `package` branch target for the release tag. The `package` branch contains the latest commits and files from `master` and the latest `dist` files automatically generated, which `master` doesn't have.

- Pull request are automatically tracked by release-drafter and written into the latest release draft.

- When correcting or changing a draft release versioning (e.g. v0.2.0 -> v0.1.8), please run the "Release Edited" workflow from the "Actions" tab to ensure the correct version of the `package` branch.

- You may select any tag available in the repository for publishing NPM package.